---
layout: post
title: "ResQ - JAM, a collaborative system"
subtitle: "It is time now to share the ResQ challenge to a specific Milanese community, in order to frame the possible scenarios of the project."
date: 2017-06-22 10:13:04 +0200
image: "https://opencarecc.github.io/ResQ/assets/ResQ-post-img-jam.jpg"
categories: ["news","update","event"]
by: "Silvia"
published: true
excerpt: "It is time now to share the ResQ challenge to a specific Milanese community, in order to frame the possible scenarios of the project."
lang: en
ref: mir-jam-resq
---

<blockquote><i><b>ResQ</b> is a research project on the refugees behave towards mobile technology.
In particular we conduct <b>JAM</b> and focus groups on the use of smartphones and their apps.</i></blockquote>

Our research project continues, among the <b>opencare Residency</b> and our ambitions and dreams. But it is time now to open and share the ResQ challenge to a specific Milanese community, in order to frame the possible scenarios of the project and to gain more awareness about them.

Thus, we decided to organize the <b>#ResQJam</b> entitled <b>"SMART TRAVEL - let's MAKE it together"</b> in collaboration with [Naga Har](https://www.facebook.com/NagaOnlus/).  

A <b>co-design JAM</b> is like a music one, where many 'different musicians' play together, but applied to design. In particular they usually involve service design project.
In a JAM <b>everyone is involved</b> in the creative and designing process, and it’s crucial the participation of the people the service created will be address to.

The <b>research activity</b> is made of two steps:
1. A dedicated, very visual, <b>interview</b> to get which are the <b>most popular apps</b> among certain groups of refugees.
2. The co-design JAM consists in three main parts, in which the most important one is the <b>framing</b> of the research context through a <b>storytelling</b> method.


<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qTC2J8LsO6RFXSjDGBvxeVlwLyEKeXzQ6fA1h3mN7LU/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="691" height="417" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>


* <b>Need or problem that we are trying to solve:</b>

The way helpful advices are addressed to refugees might not be that effective. We investigate the way they share information to provide them the best tool.

* <b>Beneficiary:</b>

Refugees and migrants who need to be informed on their rights in foreign countries and willing to know more about them.

***

### Release 0.3 - 2017/06/22

* <b>Project Name:</b>
	* ResQ
* <b>Users:</b>
	* Refugees and migrants
* <b>Stakeholders:</b>
	* Social workers
	* Volunteers
	* Associations
* <b>The problem:</b>
	* The language barrier
	* The missing digitalization of the gathered personal data
	* Lack of communication between the users
	* Critical context (such as reception centers)
	* Lack of knowledge about the rights in foreign countries
	* The need of getting some guidance in a new city
* <b>The solution:</b>
	* A digital solution (a platform, an app)
	* A digital database
* <b>Link:</b>
	* [ResQ JAM slide presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qTC2J8LsO6RFXSjDGBvxeVlwLyEKeXzQ6fA1h3mN7LU/edit?usp=sharing) 22/06/2017

***

<b>Stay tuned! More informations will follow!</b>

ResQ [Fb page](https://www.facebook.com/ResQ-121899991732625/) ∞ ResQ [Email](mailto:resqstaff@wemake.cc)
